CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Shadow Library

We would love for you to contribute to Shadow Library and help make it even better than it is today! As a contributor, here are the guidelines we would like you to follow:

- Commit Message Guidelines

## Commit Message Guidelines

We have very precise rules over how our git commit messages can be formatted. This leads to more readable messages that are easy to follow when looking through the project history. But also, we use the git commit messages to generate the Shadow Library change log.

### Commit Message Format

Each commit message consists of a **header**, a **body** and a **footer**. The header has a special format that includes a **type**, a **scope** and a **subject**:

```
<type>(<scope>): <subject>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

The **header** is mandatory and the **scope** of the header is optional.

Any line of the commit message cannot be longer than 100 characters! This allows the message to be easier to read on GitHub as well as in various git tools.

Footer should contain a [closing reference to an issue](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-via-commit-messages/) if any.

Samples: (even more [samples][commits_samples])

```
docs(changelog): update change log to version 1.2
fix(core): authorization hierarchy graph
```

### Revert

If the commit reverts a previous commit, it should begin with `revert:`, followed by the header of the reverted commit. In the body it should say: `This reverts commit <hash>.`, where the hash is the SHA of the commit being reverted.

### Type

Must be one of the following:

- **build**: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: lerna, npm)
- **chore**: Updating tasks etc; no production code change
- **ci**: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, Github Actions)
- **docs**: Documentation only changes
- **feat**: A new feature
- **fix**: A bug fix
- **perf**: A code change that improves performance
- **refactor**: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- **style**: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
- **test**: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
- **sample**: A change to the samples

### Scope

The scope should have the name of the npm package affected (as perceived by person reading changelog generated from commit messages).

The following is the list of supported scopes:

- **errors**: for changes made on `packages/errors` directory

If your change affect more than one package, separate the scopes with a comma (e.g. `common,errors`).

There are currently a few exceptions to the "use package name" rule:

- **packaging**: used for changes that change the npm package layout in all of our packages, e.g. public path changes, package.json changes done to all packages, d.ts file/format changes, changes to bundles, etc.
- **changelog**: used for updating the release notes in CHANGELOG.md
- none/empty string: useful for `style`, `test` and `refactor` changes that are done across all packages (e.g. `style: add missing semicolons`)

### Subject

The subject contains succinct description of the change:

- use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes"
- don't capitalize first letter
- no dot (.) at the end

### Body

Just as in the **subject**, use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes".
The body should include the motivation for the change and contrast this with previous behavior.

### Footer

The footer should contain any information about **Breaking Changes** and is also the place to
reference GitHub issues that this commit **Closes**.

**Breaking Changes** should start with the word `BREAKING CHANGE:` with a space or two newlines. The rest of the commit message is then used for this.

A detailed explanation can be found in this [document][commit-message-format].

[commit-message-format]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QrDFcIiPjSLDn3EL15IJygNPiHORgU1_OOAqWjiDU5Y/edit#
[github]: https://github.com/leanderpaul/shadow-library
[ts-style-guide]: https://ts.dev/style
[new_issue]: https://github.com/leanderpaul/shadow-library/issues/new
[gh_prs]: https://github.com/leanderpaul/shadow-library/pulls
[commits_samples]: https://github.com/leanderpaul/shadow-library/commits/master

Commit message:

feat(types): package setup and types

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Shadow Library

We would love for you to contribute to Shadow Library and help make it even better than it is today! As a contributor, here are the guidelines we would like you to follow:

- Commit Message Guidelines

## Commit Message Guidelines

We have very precise rules over how our git commit messages can be formatted. This leads to more readable messages that are easy to follow when looking through the project history. But also, we use the git commit messages to generate the Shadow Library change log.

### Commit Message Format

Each commit message consists of a **header**, a **body** and a **footer**. The header has a special format that includes a **type**, a **scope** and a **subject**:

```
<type>(<scope>): <subject>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

The **header** is mandatory and the **scope** of the header is optional.

Any line of the commit message cannot be longer than 100 characters! This allows the message to be easier to read on GitHub as well as in various git tools.

Footer should contain a [closing reference to an issue](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-via-commit-messages/) if any.

Samples: (even more [samples][commits_samples])

```
docs(changelog): update change log to version 1.2
fix(core): authorization hierarchy graph
```

### Revert

If the commit reverts a previous commit, it should begin with `revert:`, followed by the header of the reverted commit. In the body it should say: `This reverts commit <hash>.`, where the hash is the SHA of the commit being reverted.

### Type

Must be one of the following:

- **build**: Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: lerna, npm)
- **chore**: Updating tasks etc; no production code change
- **ci**: Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, Github Actions)
- **docs**: Documentation only changes
- **feat**: A new feature
- **fix**: A bug fix
- **perf**: A code change that improves performance
- **refactor**: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature
- **style**: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)
- **test**: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests
- **sample**: A change to the samples

### Scope

The scope should have the name of the npm package affected (as perceived by person reading changelog generated from commit messages).

The following is the list of supported scopes:

- **errors**: for changes made on `packages/errors` directory
- **types**: for changes made on `package/types` directory

If your change affect more than one package, separate the scopes with a comma (e.g. `common,errors`).

There are currently a few exceptions to the "use package name" rule:

- **packaging**: used for changes that change the npm package layout in all of our packages, e.g. public path changes, package.json changes done to all packages, d.ts file/format changes, changes to bundles, etc.
- **changelog**: used for updating the release notes in CHANGELOG.md
- none/empty string: useful for `style`, `test` and `refactor` changes that are done across all packages (e.g. `style: add missing semicolons`)

### Subject

The subject contains succinct description of the change:

- use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes"
- don't capitalize first letter
- no dot (.) at the end

### Body

Just as in the **subject**, use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes".
The body should include the motivation for the change and contrast this with previous behavior.

### Footer

The footer should contain any information about **Breaking Changes** and is also the place to
reference GitHub issues that this commit **Closes**.

**Breaking Changes** should start with the word `BREAKING CHANGE:` with a space or two newlines. The rest of the commit message is then used for this.

A detailed explanation can be found in this [document][commit-message-format].

[commit-message-format]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QrDFcIiPjSLDn3EL15IJygNPiHORgU1_OOAqWjiDU5Y/edit#
[github]: https://github.com/leanderpaul/shadow-library
[ts-style-guide]: https://ts.dev/style
[new_issue]: https://github.com/leanderpaul/shadow-library/issues/new
[gh_prs]: https://github.com/leanderpaul/shadow-library/pulls
[commits_samples]: https://github.com/leanderpaul/shadow-library/commits/master
